---
title: 'Enjoying reading in 2023'
date: 2023-01-20
permalink: /posts/2023/01/bp2/
tags:
  - research
---

Reading list 2023

Jan 2023
======
Beginning of the year, still struggling in error handling and exception...

Automatic Detecting Error Handling Bugs using Error Specifications
------
The paper was published in Usenix Security 2016. Error Path Explorer (EPEx) was created to find error handling bugs in the C program.

Authors consider the lack of exception-support makes error handling bugs in C program difficult to detect. This work addressed three challenges: error path exploration, lack of an error oracle, error bug localization with under-constrained symbolic execution. If program doesn't follow three rules: propagating correct error value, stop execution, logging to handle the error, then EPEx would mark it as potential bug.

What is error specification? it means how data used to indicate error and non-error. For example, the function return negative integer to show that some error happens in it. This paper assumes manually created per-function error specification was given.

From my understanding, to define incorrect error handling is the most difficult part to find such type of bug. To achieve it, this work combines the error specification and default behaviors based on observation.

Here is the [link](https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity16/technical-sessions/presentation/jana).

Detecting Error-Handling Bugs without Error Specification Input
------
The paper was published in ASE 2019. [EH-Miner](https://github.com/ZhouyangJia/EH-Miner) was created to find error handling bugs without error specfication.

The paper first elaborates that error specification is error prone and the bug detectors should not rely on it.

So how do we know error handling is correct or not without knowing the semantics of error value? In this paper, authors use error handling **action** to identify whether it is correct or not. Take `chroot` in the paper for example (this example really makes it easy to understand), EH-miner mines the error-handling rule that "`chroot` should be logged when return -1", then any other action which doesn't have same semantics as logging would be considered as incorrect. EH-miner mines such rules from different software which both use `chroot` based on their observation that error-handling action should be same as program-independent, while non-error handling action could be program-dependent. 

Here is the [link](https://2019.ase-conferences.org/details/ase-2019-papers/11/Detecting-Error-Handling-Bugs-without-Error-Specification-Input).